
000
WTPA34 PHFO 061448
TCPCP4
 
BULLETIN
Hurricane Lowell Advisory Number  42
NWS Central Pacific Hurricane Center Honolulu HI   EP122026
Issued by NWS National Hurricane Center Miami FL
500 AM HST Sun Sep 06 2026
 
...TROPICAL STORM WARNING ISSUED FOR KAUAI AND NIIHAU...
 
 
SUMMARY OF 500 AM HST...1500 UTC...INFORMATION
----------------------------------------------
LOCATION...14.7N 163.8W
ABOUT 580 MI...935 KM SSW OF LIHUE HAWAII
ABOUT 600 MI...960 KM SW OF HONOLULU HAWAII
MAXIMUM SUSTAINED WINDS...125 MPH...205 KM/H
PRESENT MOVEMENT...NNW OR 335 DEGREES AT 6 MPH...9 KM/H
MINIMUM CENTRAL PRESSURE...943 MB...27.85 INCHES
 
 
WATCHES AND WARNINGS
--------------------
CHANGES WITH THIS ADVISORY:
 
A Hurricane Warning has been issued for the Papahanaumokuakea
Marine National Monument from Nihoa to French Frigate Shoals. A
Tropical Storm Warning has been issued for Kauai County, including
the islands of Kauai and Niihau.
 
SUMMARY OF WATCHES AND WARNINGS IN EFFECT:
 
A Hurricane Warning is in effect for...
* The Papahanaumokuakea Marine National Monument from Nihoa to
French Frigate Shoals
 
A Tropical Storm Warning is in effect for...
* Kauai County, including the islands of Kauai and Niihau
 
A Hurricane Warning means that hurricane conditions are expected
somewhere within the warning area.  A warning is typically issued
36 hours before the anticipated first occurrence of
tropical-storm-force winds, conditions that make outside
preparations difficult or dangerous.  Preparations to protect life
and property should be rushed to completion.
 
A Tropical Storm Warning means that tropical storm conditions are
expected somewhere within the warning area within 36 hours.
 
Interests elsewhere in the Hawaiian Islands and the
Papahanaumokuakea Marine National Monument should monitor the
progress of Lowell.
 
For storm information specific to your area, including possible
inland watches and warnings, please monitor products issued by your
local National Weather Service forecast office.
 
 
DISCUSSION AND OUTLOOK
----------------------
At 500 AM HST (1500 UTC), the center of Hurricane Lowell was located
near latitude 14.7 North, longitude 163.8 West. Lowell is moving
toward the north-northwest near 6 mph (9 km/h). A turn toward the 
north and north-northeast with an increase in forward speed is 
expected over the next couple of days, bringing the center of 
Lowell across portions of the Papahanaumokuakea Marine National 
Monument, just west of the main Hawaiian Islands, Monday night. 
Lowell is forecast to turn toward the north-northwest and slow 
down by Tuesday night after passing the Hawaiian Islands.
 
Maximum sustained winds are near 125 mph (205 km/h) with higher
gusts.  Lowell is a category 3 hurricane on the Saffir-Simpson
Hurricane Wind Scale.  Some fluctuations in intensity remain 
possible through this afternoon, followed by gradual weakening 
beginning tonight. Lowell is expected to remain a major hurricane 
through Monday.
 
Hurricane-force winds extend outward up to 50 miles (85 km) from the
center and tropical-storm-force winds extend outward up to 175 miles
(280 km).
 
The estimated minimum central pressure is 943 mb (27.85 inches).
 
 
HAZARDS AFFECTING LAND
----------------------
Key messages for Lowell can be found in the Tropical Cyclone
Discussion under AWIPS header HFOTCDCP4 and WMO header WTPA44
PHFO.
 
WIND: Tropical storm conditions are expected in Kauai County by
Monday afternoon or evening. Hurricane conditions are possible in
in the Papahanaumokuakea Marine National Monument between Nihoa and
French Frigate Shoals Monday night, with tropical storm conditions
beginning Monday afternoon. Wind speeds atop and on the windward 
and leeward sides of hills and mountains are often up to 30 percent 
stronger than the near-surface winds, and in some elevated locations 
could be even greater.
 
RAINFALL: Hurricane Lowell is expected to produce rainfall totals of 
6 to 10 inches for Kauai, with maximum totals of 14 inches possible. 
For the Big Island, 4 to 8 inches of rain is expected with isolated 
totals of 12 inches possible. For Maui, 2 to 4 inches of rain is 
expected, with isolated maximum totals of 8 inches possible. Across 
the remaining islands, rainfall of 2 to 4 inches is possible. This 
rainfall may produce significant flash flooding and mudslides, 
especially across Kauai County and portions of the Big Island.

For a complete depiction of forecast rainfall associated with 
Hurricane Lowell, please see the National Weather Service Storm 
Total Rainfall Graphic available at 
hurricanes.gov/graphics_ep12.shtml?rainqpf
 
STORM SURGE: The combination of storm surge and tide will cause
normally dry areas near the coast to be flooded by rising waters
moving inland from the shoreline. The water could reach the
following heights above ground somewhere in the indicated areas if
the peak surge occurs at the time of high tide...
 
Kauai County...1-3 ft
Oahu...Up to 1 ft
 
The deepest water will occur along the immediate coast near and to
the right of the center, where the surge will be accompanied by
large and destructive waves. Surge-related flooding depends on the
relative timing of the surge and the tidal cycle, and can vary
greatly over short distances.
 
For a complete depiction of areas at risk of storm surge inundation,
please see the National Weather Service Peak Storm Surge Graphic,
available at hurricanes.gov/graphics_cp4.shtml?peakSurge.
 
SURF: Swells from Lowell are likely to cause life-threatening surf
and rip current conditions during the next several days across
many of the Hawaiian islands. Please consult products from your
local weather office.
 
 
NEXT ADVISORY
-------------
Next intermediate advisory at 800 AM HST.
Next complete advisory at 1100 AM HST.
 
$$
Forecaster Berg
 
